Docs: add query caching to Enterprise docs (#31741)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/query-caching.md

+++
title = "Query caching"
description = "Grafana Enterprise data source query caching"
keywords = ["grafana", "plugins", "query", "caching"]
weight = 110
+++

# Query caching

> > Query caching is available behind a feature flag in Grafana Enterprise v7.5+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Query caching is available behind a feature flag in Grafana Enterprise 7.5+.
```

> When query caching is enabled, Grafana will temporarily store the results of data source queries. When you or another user submit the exact same query again, the results will come back from the cache instead of from the data source (like Splunk or ServiceNow) itself. This results in faster dashboard load times, especially for popular dashboards, as well as reduced API costs and reduced likelihood that APIs will rate-limit or throttle requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When query caching is enabled, Grafana temporarily stores the results of data source queries. When you or another user submit the exact same query again, the results will come back from the cache instead of from the data source (like Splunk or ServiceNow) itself.

Query caching currently works for all backend data sources. You can enable the cache globally or per data source, and you can configure the cache duration per data source. The cache is in-memory only.

## Query caching benefits

- Faster dashboard load times, especially for popular dashboards.
- Reduced API costs.
- Reduced likelihood that APIs will rate-limit or throttle requests.
```

> Query caching currently works for all backend data sources. You can enable the cache globally or per data source, and you can configure the cache duration per data source. The cache is in-memory only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Enable query caching

> To enable and configure query caching, please refer the the [Query caching section of Enterprise Configuration]({{< relref "./enterprise-configuration.md#query-caching" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable and configure query caching, please refer the the [Query caching section of Enterprise Configuration]({{< relref "./enterprise-configuration.md#query-caching" >}}).
```
